update design documentation (#158)
wmde/wikit: docs/src/doc/create-reusable-components/02_designing_components.stories.mdx

<Meta title="Documentation/How to create reusable components/Designing Components" />

# Designing Components

This section provides UX designers with predictive instructions on how to design and specify new design system components for handover. Specifically, the following topics are covered:

**[1. Designing new system components](#1-designing-new-system-components)** <br/>
 [1.1. Discover](#11-discover)<br/>
 [1.2. Design](#12-design)<br/>
 [1.3. Decide](#13-decide)<br/>
 [1.4. Document](#14-document)<br/>
 [1.5. The design definition of done](#15-the-design-definition-of-done) <br/>

**[2. Using design tokens](#2-using-design-tokens)** <br/>

>   [2.1. Introduction: Design tokens in the context of the Wikidata design system](#21-introduction-what-are-design-tokens-in-the-context-of-the-wikidata-design-system)<br/>

Author: ```suggestion
  [2.1. Introduction: Design tokens in the context of the Wikidata/Wikibase design system](#21-introduction-what-are-design-tokens-in-the-context-of-the-wikidata-design-system)<br/>
```

>   [2.1. Introduction: Design tokens in the context of the Wikidata/Wikibase design system](#21-introduction-what-are-design-tokens-in-the-context-of-the-wikidata-design-system)<br/>

Author: ```suggestion
  [2.1. Introduction: Design tokens in the context of the Wikidata/Wikibase design system](#21-introduction-design-tokens-in-the-context-of-the-wikidatawikibase-design-system)<br/>
```

- **Accessibility** has been taken into consideration (contrast, sizing, copy)

- **Responsive** behavior has been defined

- The final version of the component has been shared and **reviewed by other members of the design team**

- The totality of the component’s visual and interactive characteristics can be expressed using **design tokens** ([See 2](#2-using-design-tokens))

All the items on the previous list are a prerequisite to consider the component ready for handover ([See 3](#3-design-handover)).

******

## 2. Using design tokens

Design tokens have two main applications. They can mainly help designers to:

- **Define the style of a component**: Since tokens capture the system’s styling patterns and premade decisions ([See 2.1](#21-introduction-what-are-design-tokens-in-the-context-of-the-wikidata-design-system)), they can provide guidance to designers working to define the styles of new system components from scratch.

- **Create specs**: Once the design of the new component is ready, its styles will be outlined using design tokens ([See 2.2](#22-using-tokens-to-specify-a-new-component)). This is a necessary step of the handover process ([See 3](3-design-handover)).

> ### 2.1. Introduction: What are design tokens in the context of the Wikidata design system?

Author: ```suggestion
### 2.1. Introduction: Design tokens in the context of the Wikidata/Wikibase design system
```

<br/>
- Basic component documentation (as defined in 1.4):<br/>
  - A distinctive **name** for the component and its relevant typologies
  - A **short description** of the overall purpose of the component<br/>
  <br/>
- Storybook indications:<br/>
  - Specify where, within the current **Storybook structure**, the component should  be classified (new dedicated section or subsection), based on the relationship to its component family (this relationship should also be expressed by the name).
  - Indicate the required Storybook **knobs**, if needed: these are sets of modifiers that allow users to check the visual and interactive properties of a component.<br/>
  <br/>
- **Assets** used by components (e.g. icons) should be included in Figma, but ideally these could be exported in an svg format and attached to the component story in Phabricator, to make them directly available for download. <br/>

👉🏻  Designers should dedicate time to go through handover files with the developers in their hike in order to make sure that the documentation is intelligible and well structured for everyone, and to detect potential missing requirements before moving into implementation.

******

> _Last update: 19/08/2020, by [Sarai Sánchez](https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:SaraiSan-WMDE). Does this file need corrections or an update? Feel free to [edit it on GitHub](https://github.com/wmde/wikit/blob/master/docs/src/doc/create-reusable-components/02_designing_components.stories.mdx)_

Reviewer: Is this whole message here on purpose or was it generated by some tool? 🤔

Author: It's manually introduced, so it may be easily become outdated. It may be worth eliminating the date and author, and simply leave the encouragement line :)

Author: oops. Just noticed we overlapped. I didn't see the other comment!

> _Last update: 19/08/2020, by [Sarai Sánchez](https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:SaraiSan-WMDE). Does this file need corrections or an update? Feel free to [edit it on GitHub](https://github.com/wmde/wikit/blob/master/docs/src/doc/create-reusable-components/02_designing_components.stories.mdx)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Does this file need corrections or an update? Feel free to [edit it on GitHub](https://github.com/wmde/wikit/blob/master/docs/src/doc/create-reusable-components/02_designing_components.stories.mdx)_
```
I think omitting the author and date will prevent future mistakes, when someone updates this and forgets to change the date and name.

Author: done!

> _Last update: 19/08/2020, by [Sarai Sánchez](https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:SaraiSan-WMDE). Does this file need corrections or an update? Feel free to [edit it on GitHub](https://github.com/wmde/wikit/blob/master/docs/src/doc/create-reusable-components/02_designing_components.stories.mdx)_

Author: ```suggestion
_Does this file need corrections or an update? Feel free to [edit it on GitHub](https://github.com/wmde/wikit/blob/master/docs/src/doc/create-reusable-components/02_designing_components.stories.mdx)_
```
